DIVD-2024-00023 (#769)
DIVD-NL/web-csirt: _cases/2024/DIVD-2024-00023.md

---
layout: case
title: "Authentication Bypass Vulnerability in Progress Telerik Report Server"
author: Stan Plasmeijer
lead: Stan Plasmeijer
excerpt: "In Progress Telerik Report Server, version 2024 Q1 (10.0.24.305) or earlier on IIS, an unauthenticated attacker can exploit an authentication bypass vulnerability to access restricted functionality. Report Servers with a version 2024 Q1 (10.0.24.130) or earlier are vulnerable for an insecure deserialization attack to achieve full unauthenticated Remote Code Execution (RCE)."
researchers:
- Stan Plasmeijer
- Alwin Warringa
cves:
- CVE-2024-4358
- CVE-2024-1800
product:
- Telerik Report Server
versions: 
- version 2024 Q1 (10.0.24.305) or earlier

> recommendation: "Update to 2024 Q2 (10.1.24.514) or apply a temporary mitigation"

Reviewer: Er is ook een  `workaround: ` propertie, is het handig deze in te vullen bij deze case?

patch_status: Released
status : Open
start: 2024-06-04
end:
timeline:
- start: 2024-06-04
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts researching the vulnerability."
- start: 2024-06-04
  end:
  event: "DIVD finds fingerprint, preparing to scan."
- start: 2024-06-05
  end:
  event: "Case opened, first version of this casefile"
- start: 2024-06-05
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts scanning the internet for vulnerable instances."

# ips: 0

---

## Summary

In Progress Telerik Report Server, version 2024 Q1 (10.0.24.305) or earlier, an unauthenticated attacker can exploit an authentication bypass vulnerability to access restricted functionality. This allows the creation of rogue administrator accounts within Telerik Report Server.

In Progress Telerik Report Server, version 2024 Q1 (10.0.24.130) or earlier are vulnerable for a remote code execution attack through an insecure deserialization vulnerability.

Both vulnerabilities combined can lead to an unauthenticated attacker achieving remote code execution on the system, enabling them to take control of the system.

## Recommendations

> Telerik recommends updating to the latest version of Telerik Report Server, which is 2024 Q2 (10.1.24.514). For updating to the latest version see https://docs.telerik.com/report-server/implementer-guide/setup/upgrade.

Reviewer: Op deze manier is de hyperlink niet klikbaar.
```suggestion
Telerik recommends updating to the latest version of Telerik Report Server, which is 2024 Q2 (10.1.24.514). For updating to the latest version see [this Telerik knowledge base article](bashttps://docs.telerik.com/report-server/implementer-guide/setup/upgrade).
```
